#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Securing MeshMS
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Paul Gardner-Stephen, Alexandra Sclapari, Andrew Bettison, Romana Challans,
 Jeremy Lakeman
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Serval MeshMS is a private messaging protocol built on top of the Serval
 Rhizome store-and-forward delay tolerant networking platform.
 As with all Serval Project technologies, MeshMS is designed to facilitate
 communications by individuals and agencies during and following emergency,
 disaster or unrest, as well as in areas where conventional mobile telecommunica
tions services and infrastructure may be unavailable, unaffordable or untrustwor
thy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Privacy of communications between parties, including privacy of the existence
 of communications between parties are important security considerations
 for such a system, as knowledge of a persons social graph or the content
 of their communications with others may compromise their personal safety.
 Therefore it is imperative to provide the strongest possible protection
 for these, without rendering the resulting system difficult to use.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
A particular challenge that we address in this paper is how to keep a person's
 social graph private in the face of a store-and-forward based system that
 gives potential attackers easy access to all transmissions on the network.
 These constraints necessitate a trade-off of security and efficiency.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Our solution is to encrypt both communications payloads and also the origin
 of the communications, such that only the recipient can determine who the
 sender is.
 This preserves ease of routing of encrypted messages to their destination.
 This paper describes this solution, and is accompanied by an initial analysis
 of the security factors involved.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Background
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to understand the problem, it is necessary to explain the formulation
 of MeshMS over the Serval Mesh protocols, and the information required
 by a corresponding party to access conversations carried as MeshMS messages.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The Serval Mesh
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Serval Mesh is designed as a resilient, fault-tolerant and fully distributed
 network that uses smart-phones as the only required network component.
 The Serval Mesh consists of software that is installed on compatible smart-phon
es, and uses the Wi-Fi capability of those devices to form a mesh network.
 A novel feature of the Serval Mesh that is particularly useful in situations
 of disaster and unrest is the ability to share the software from phone
 to phone, thus facilitating logistics-free deployment during a disaster.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To avoid the need to obtain super-user privilege on smart-phones the Serval
 Mesh software toggles the Wi-Fi radio between access-point and managed
 (client) modes.
 This is the direct result of the failure of most mobile operating systems
 to provide public APIs to access ad-hoc Wi-Fi, which is the superior solution
 for forming mesh networks.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The result of the lack of ad-hoc Wi-Fi is that nodes are typically only
 in intermittent contact with other nodes on the network.
 Thus end-to-end communications protocols such as UDP and TCP are unusable,
 because an end-to-end link may never exist.
 To address this and other limitations with end-to-end communications protocols
 on mobile ad-hoc networks (MANETs), the Serval Mesh contains a store-and-forwar
d bundle-based protocol that provides delay-tolerant networking.
 This protocol is called Serval Rhizome.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Rhizome works by widely distributing 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

bundles
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 which consist of a (possibly empty) file and a short meta-data block called
 the manifest.
 The manifest contains information such as the sender and recipient of a
 bundle, as well as cryptographic signatures that prevent tampering with
 the meta-data or attached file.
 When the sender and recipient of a bundle both specified, Rhizome will
 by default encrypt the attached file using a symmetric cipher key derived
 from the Diffie-Hellman shared secret that can be derived from one public
 and one private key of the sender and recipient.
 That is, only the sender and recipient who have posession of one of the
 required private keys can encrypt or decrypt the file.
 This provides a mechanism for the protection of the content of a Rhizome-based
 communication.
 However, it does nothing to protect the identity of the sender or recipient
 of the bundle, which is the subject of this paper.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
XXX - Talk about how bundle key is based on sender and recipient shared
 secret, thus preventing spoofing of sender or recipient in a bundle.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bundles can be revoked or replaced with newer versions of the bundle, but
 only with possession of the private key that was used to create the bundle.
 In addition to the outright replacement of the contents of a bundle, provision
 exists within the Rhizome protocol for bundles to nominate themselves as
 Journal Bundles.
 Journal Bundles may append new data to the end of their file, but may not
 alter data contained in the already published portion of the bundle.
 This allows incremental transfer of only the new content in a journal bundle,
 which can greatly increase network efficiency.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Serval MeshMS
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Serval MeshMS is intended for the transport over the Serval Mesh of SMS,
 MMS and PXT-style messages between pairs of individuals.
 Rhizome transported Journal Bundles are used to carry the messages, so
 that as additional messages are sent and received, only the previously
 undelivered content requires transport over the network.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On the receiver side, the Serval Mesh software uses the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

meshms list conversations
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 command to scan for bundles that correspond to plys of a conversation thread.
 In a thread between A and B, there will be either one or both plys from
 A to B, and from B to A.
 Group messaging is beyond the scope of the current paper.
 Plys are identified by their sender and recipient fields from the bundle
 meta-data.
 Thus the sender and recipient fields must be discernable by the recipient.
 This requirement of identifiability of parties by the corresponding parties
 complicates the objective of concealing their identities from non-corresponding
 parties.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Re-Statement of Problem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The problem can be thus be restated as: how to arrange the manifest to contain
 the identities of the corresponding parties, but in a manner that only
 the corresponding parties can comprehend.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Moreover, the comprehension of corresponding parties of a conversation must
 be a rapid process, so that it can be performed in real-time on a mobile
 device that may be caching bundles for many correspondants other than itself.
 This renders it attempt a cryptographic protocol on all MeshMS bundles,
 and there must be sufficient information available to the recipient to
 filter irrelevant bundles when seeking to identify plys that involve itself.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Potential Solutions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Obfruscate Sender & Recipient
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Obfruscate Recipient
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Obfruscate Sender
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
